---
layout: page
title: Week 2 Episode 1
parent: Classes
grand_parent: 2020
permalink: /2020/classes/w02e01
has_toc: true
has_children: true


---
# W01E02 | Cut-up 1
{: .no_toc}

1. TOC
{:toc}


---

# Listen


<iframe src="https://anchor.fm/scripteddesign/embed/episodes/S01-W02-E01-Scripted-Design--Week-2-Episode-1-ekkfn1" height="102px" width="100%" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>


<br>
[Leave a voice message for the show!](https://anchor.fm/scripteddesign/message){: .button}

### Subscribe

Subscribe to Scripted Design on your favourite podcast platform:

[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/3sYD3KyPJXnIHUY2m2uFcy){: .button} [Apple Podcasts](https://podcasts.apple.com/nl/podcast/scripted-design/id1533696064?l=en){: .button} [Google Podcasts](https://www.google.com/podcasts?feed=aHR0cHM6Ly9hbmNob3IuZm0vcy8zN2QzMjZjNC9wb2RjYXN0L3Jzcw==){: .button}[Breaker](https://breaker.audio/scripted-design){: .button} [Pocket Casts](https://pca.st/h40ivs5f){: .button} [Anchor.fm](https://anchor.fm/scripteddesign){: .button} [RadioPublic](https://radiopublic.com/scripted-design-WaxpdP){: .button}[Castbox](https://castbox.fm/channel/Scripted-Design-id3371338){: .button} [RSS](https://anchor.fm/s/37d326c4/podcast/rss){: .button}




---

# Download random audio file

Today's task involves downloading a random audio file from the ones that were uploaded last week. Click the button below to download a random file (it will download a new file each time you click).

<a id="rdmfile" class="button" onclick="document.getElementById('rdmfile').innerHTML = getRndInteger(1,137)">Download random instruction file</a>


<script type="text/javascript">
function getRndInteger(min, max) {
	var num = Math.floor(Math.random() * (max - min + 1) ) + min;
  var clicker = 'onclick="document.getElementById(\'rdmfile\').innerHTML = getRndInteger(1,137)"';
	var text = "<a href='/assets/instructions-mp3/"+num+".mp3' class='button' download "+clicker+">Download random instruction file</a>";
    return text;
}
document.getElementById('rdmfile').innerHTML = getRndInteger(1,137);
</script>

---

# Transcript


Hello. Welcome to week two, day one of Scripted Design. This week we’re going to be working around ideas of cut up.

To start, as we always do, I’d like you to do a free-write write for five minutes on the subject of re-ordering. Re-ordering, five minutes, starting….now!

[5 minutes]

[sound]

Welcome back. How are the free-writes going for you? Is this something you’re enjoying, something you love doing, something you hate? Or have you written something or realised something you really want to share? Please do let me know - you can leave a voice message by following the link in the show notes.



Now, we’re going to be using voices of people on this course for our own creative exercise. Now, the main creative exercise of the day. This is one that requires you to go to the Scripted Design website. If you go to the website, and the page for today’s show, Week 2, Episode 1, there is a special section at the top of the page which will allocate you a random audio file from all of the audio file listeners made last week, ready for downloading.

Your task today is to download one file, and make a ten-second film to accompany the audio instruction. That means you will have to open up video editing software, create a new scene or composition that’s 10 seconds long, import the audio file you downloaded, and shoot and import some new visual footage to accompany the soundtrack, and export your new composition.

Then please upload the footage to our shared drive - there’s a link in the show notes.

If you’ve edited videos before, and know how to do what I just described, then great! You can stop listening now, and go and do the task. If you haven’t edited videos before, there is a tutorial for Adobe Premiere Pro, and Da Vinci Resolve, which is a free high-powered video editor. I would love to include more tutorials for different software, but these are the two platforms that I currently use. If you use something else, you’ll have to find some tutorials online. Those steps again:



- [Download the audio file from the Situated Design website, 2020, Week 2 Episode 1](#Download-random-audio-file).
- Create a new composition or scene, ten seconds in length.
- Import the audio file you downloaded into that scene, making sure it fits into the ten second length. There should be a couple of seconds’ silence at either end, so bear this in mind when you’re composing your film.
- Shoot some footage that you feel is appropriate for the audio composition, using your camera or phone.
- Import this new video footage into the composition, but remove the audio track. This means that you should be able to see your video, but hear the sound file you downloaded.
- Edit the film to be 10 seconds long.
- Export the new film, and upload it via the link on the Scripted Design website.

Good luck with this task - and I’m looking forward to seeing what you create!

# Upload your work

[Upload your work here](https://forms.gle/YtFQVqFFxQj1wdYx7){: .button}


# Cutting tutorials

[New to cutting videos? Here's a tutorial for Premiere Pro](/2020/classes/s01e01-cutting)
